Saigon.
Shit.
I'm still only in Saigon.
Every time, I think
I'm gonna wake up, back in the jungle.
When I was home after my first tour,
it was worse.
I'd wake up, and there'd be nothing.
I hardly said a word to my wife,
until I said "yes" to a divorce.
When I was here, I wanted to be there.
When I was there, all I could think
of was getting back into the jungle.
I'm here a week, now.
Waiting for a mission.
Getting softer.
Every minute I stay in this room,
I get weaker.
And every minute
Charlie squats in the bush,
he gets stronger.
Each time I looked around,
the walls moved in a little tighter.
Everyone gets everything he wants.
I wanted a mission.
And for my sins, they gave me one.
Brought it up to me like room service.
Captain Willard, are you in there?
Yeah, I'm coming.
It was a real choice mission.
And when it was over,
I'd never want another.
- What do you want?
- Are you all right, Captain?
What does it look like?
- Are you Captain Willard, 505th Battalion?
- Affirmative.
- 173rd Airborne?
- Yeah.
- Assigned to SOG?
- Hey, buddy, you gonna shut the door?
We have orders
to escort you to the airfield.
- What are the charges?
- Sir?
What'd I do?
There's no charges, Captain.
You have orders to report to
COMSEC Intelligence, at Nha Trang.
- I see.
- All right?
- Nha Trang for me?
- That's right.
Come on, Captain. You still
have a few hours to get cleaned up.
- I'm not feeling too good...
- Captain?
Dave, come here and give me a hand.
We got a dead one.
Come on, Captain. Let's take a shower.
- Don't be an ass.
- Get hold of him good.
We're gonna take a shower, Captain.
- In we go.
- Now, stand underneath this, Captain.
I was going to
the worst place in the world
and I didn't even know it yet.
Weeks away and
hundreds of miles up a river
that snaked through the war
like a main circuit cable,
plugged straight into Kurtz.
Insult me again
and I'll kick your ass.
It was no accident
that I got to be the caretaker
of Colonel Walter E. Kurtz's memory,
any more than being back
in Saigon was an accident.
There is no way to tell his
story without telling my own.
And if his story is really a confession...
Captain Willard reporting, sir.
Then so is mine.
- Captain. Good. Come on in.
- Thank you, sir.
- Stand at ease.
- General.
Do you want a cigarette?
No, thank you, sir.
Captain, have you ever
seen this gentleman before?
No, sir.
- Met the General or myself?
- No, sir.
Not personally.
You've worked a lot on your own,
haven't you, Captain?
Yes, sir, I have.
Your report specifies Intelligence,
Counterintelligence with COMSEC, I Corps.
I'm not presently disposed
to discuss those operations, sir.
Did you not work for the CIA in I Corps?
No, sir.
Did you not assassinate
a government tax collector,
Quang Tri province, June 18, 1968?
Captain?
Sir, I am unaware
of any such activity or operation,
Nor would I be disposed
to discuss such an operation
if it did, in fact, exist, sir.
I thought we'd have
a bite of lunch while we talk.
I hope you brought a good appetite,
Captain.
I noticed that you have a...
...bad hand, there.
Are you wounded?
I had a little fishing accident
on R&R, sir.
- "Fishing on R&R?"
- Yes, sir.
But you're feeling fit?
You're ready for duty?
Oh yes, General. Very much so, sir.
Well, let's see what we have, here.
Roast beef, and usually it's not bad.
Try some, Jerry, and pass it around.
To save a little time,
we might pass both ways.
Captain, I don't know how
you feel about this shrimp,
but, if you'll eat it,
you'll never have to prove
your courage in any other way.
Right, well,
why don't I just take a piece, here?
Captain, you've heard of
Colonel Walter E. Kurtz?
Uh, yes, sir,
I've heard the name.
Oh, Jesus...
Operations Officer, Fifth Special Forces.
Luke, would you play that
tape for the Captain, please?
- Yes, sir. I'm sorry, sir.
- Listen to this carefully, Captain.
October 9, 0430 hours.
Sector: Peter, Victor, King.
These were monitored out of Cambodia.
This has been
verified as Colonel Kurtz's voice.
I watched... a snail...
crawl along the edge...
of a straight razor.
That's my dream.
It's my nightmare.
Crawling, slithering...
along the edge...
of a straight... razor,
and surviving.
Transmission 11, received '68,
December 30, 0500 hours.
Sector: King, Zulu, King.
But we must kill them.
We must incinerate them,
pig after pig,
cow after cow,
village after village,
Army after army.
And they call me an assassin.
What do you call it when
the assassins accuse the assassin?
They lie.
They lie, and we have to be merciful
for those who lie.
Those...
Nabobs,
I hate them.
I do hate them.
Walt Kurtz was one of
the most outstanding Officers
this country's ever produced.
He was brilliant.
He was outstanding, in every way.
And he was a good man, too.
A humanitarian man.
A man of wit and humor.
He joined the Special Forces.
And after that, his, uh...
ideas, methods...
became...
unsound.
Unsound...
Now he's crossed into Cambodia
with this... Montagnard Army of his
that worship... the man... like a God.
And follow every order,
however ridiculous.
Well, I have some other...
shocking news to tell you.
Colonel Kurtz was about to be...
arrested for murder.
I don't follow, sir. Murdered who?
Kurtz had ordered the execution
of some Vietnamese Intelligence Agents.
Men he believed were, uh, double agents.
So, he took matters into his own hands.
Well, you see, Willard...
in this war, things get..
confused out there.
Power, ideals, the old morality, and...
practical military necessity.
But out there with these natives,
it must be a... temptation to...
be God.
Because there's a...
conflict in every human heart...
between the rational and the irrational,
between good and evil.
And good does not always triumph.
Sometimes...
the dark side...
overcomes what Lincoln called,
"the better angels of our nature."
Every man has got a breaking point.
You and I have them.
Walt Kurtz has reached his.
And very obviously, he has gone insane.
Yes, sir. Very much so, sir.
Obviously insane.
Your mission is to proceed
up the Nung river in a Navy patrol boat,
pick up Colonel
Kurtz's path at Nu Mung Ba,
follow it, and learn
what you can along the way.
When you find the....
Colonel, infiltrate his team by...
Whatever means available...
and terminate the Colonel's command.
"Terminate..." the Colonel?
He's out there operating
without any decent restraint,
totally beyond the pale
of any acceptable... human conduct.
And he is still in the field,
commanding troops.
Terminate... with extreme prejudice.
You understand, Captain,
that this mission does not exist,
nor will it ever exist.
How many people
had I already killed?
There were those six
that I knew about for sure.
Close enough to blow
their last breath in my face.
But this time, it was
an American, and an Officer.
That wasn't supposed to make
any difference to me, but it did.
Shit, charging a man
with murder in this place
was like handing out
speeding tickets at the Indy 500.
I took the mission.
What the hell else was I gonna do?
But I really didn't know
what I'd do when I found him.
Did you check the tank?
Yeah.
I was being ferried
down the coast in a Navy PBR.
A type of plastic patrol boat,
a pretty common sight on the rivers.
They said it was a good way
to pick up information and move
without drawing a lot of attention.
And that was okay.
I needed the air and the time.
Only problem was, I wouldn't be alone.
Morning, Cap'n.
The crew were mostly just kids.
Rock 'n' Rollers
with one foot in their graves.
- How old are you?
- Seventeen.
The machinist,
the one they called Chef,
was from New Orleans.
He was wrapped too tight for Vietnam.
Probably wrapped
too tight for New Orleans.
Lance, on the forward .50s,
was a famous surfer
from the beaches south of LA.
To look at him, you wouldn't believe
he'd ever fired a weapon in his life.
"Clean, Mr. Clean,"
was from some South Bronx shithole,
and I think the light and space of Vietnam
really put the zap on his head.
Then there was Phillips, the Chief.
It might have been my mission,
but it sure as shit was the Chief's boat.
There's about two points
where we can draw enough water
to get into the Nung river.
They're both hot, belong to Charlie.
Don't worry about it.
I don't smoke.
You know, I've pulled
a few Special Ops in here.
About six months ago,
I took a man who was goin' up
past the bridge at Do Luong.
He was "regular Army," too.
I heard he shot himself in the head.
At first, I thought
they handed me the wrong dossier.
I couldn't believe
they wanted this man dead.
Third-Generation West Point,
top of his class,
Korea, Airborne, about 1,000 decorations,
et cetera, et cetera...
I had heard his voice on the tape
and it really put the hook in me,
but I couldn't connect up
that voice with this man.
Like they said,
he had an impressive career.
Maybe too impressive.
I mean, perfect.
He was being groomed for one
of the top slots in the Corporation,
General, Chief of Staff, anything.
In 1964, he returned from a tour
with Advisory Command in Vietnam
and things started to slip.
His report to the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
and Lyndon Johnson, was restricted.
Seems they didn't dig
what he had to tell 'em.
During the next few months,
he made three requests for transfer
to Airborne Training, Fort Benning,
Georgia, and was finally accepted.
Airborne?
He was 38 years old...
Why the fuck would he do that?
1966, joins Special Forces,
returns, Vietnam.
- Hey, what's that?
- Arc light.
- What's that?
- B-52 strike.
- Arc light.
I hate that. Every time
I hear that, something terrible happens.
Charlie don't never see 'em
or hear 'em, man.
There they are!
Concussion will suck
the air outta your damn lungs.
- Somethin' terrible's gonna happen.
- Smoke!
Secondary burning!
Hueys over there. Lots of Hueys.
Let's have a look, Chief.
It was the Air-Cav,
First of the Ninth.
That's them.
Our escorts to the
mouth of the Nung river.
But they were supposed to be
waiting for us another 30 km, ahead.
Well, Airmobile,
those boys just couldn't stay put.
Kid, come on. Get down. Come on.
First of the Ninth
was an old Cavalry Division
that had cashed in its horses for
choppers and gone tear-assing around Nam
looking for the shit.
They'd given Charlie a few
surprises in their time, here.
What they were mopping up now,
hadn't even happened yet, an hour ago.
Just keep running by!
Run for television!
Don't look at the camera!
Just keep... go on! Keep going!
This is for television!
Don't look at the camera!
Just go by like you're fighting!
Like you're fighting!
Don't look at the camera!
It's for television! Just go through!
Go through! Just go by!
Keep on going! Like you're fighting!
Keep going! Don't look at the camera!
Go on! Keep going!
Where can I find the CO?
That's the Colonel coming down!
The CO's on that chopper.
Lieutenant, bomb that
tree line back about 100 yards!
- Give me some room to breathe!
- Yes, sir!
- Body cards!
- Sir?
- Bring my body cards!
- Yes, sir!
I'm the Fourth Tank Commander.
I got five tanks broken down.
We're all right with the tanks.
It's all right, Captain.
Captain Willard!
I carry priority papers from
COMSEC Intelligence, II Corps.
I understand Nha Trang has briefed
you on the requirements of my mission.
What mission?
I haven't heard from Nha Trang!
Sir, your unit is supposed
to escort us into the Nung!
- We'll see what we can do, but, uh...
- Colonel.
Just stay out of my way
until this is done, Captain!
All right, let's see what we have.
Let's see what we have.
A two of spades, three of spades,
four of diamonds,
six of clubs, eight of spades.
There isn't one worth a Jack
in the whole bunch. Four of diamonds.
- Hey, Captain, what's that?
- Death Cards!
- What?
- Death?
- It lets Charlie know who did this.
- Cheer up, son.
- We will not hurt or harm you.
- Fire in the hole!
This is an area that is controlled
by the Viet Cong and North Vietnamese.
We are here to help you.
We are here
to extend a welcome hand
- to those of you who would like...
- Come on. Everybody in?
To return to the arms of
the South Vietnamese Government.
Hurry up!
Move it out!
This is an area that is controlled
by the Viet Cong and North Vietnamese.
Hey! What's this?
What is this?
Uh, this man's hurt pretty bad, sir.
About the only thing
that's holding his guts in, sir,
- is that pot lid.
- Yeah?
What does he have to say?
These are dirty. Dirty VC.
He wants water.
He can drink paddy water.
Get out of here! Gimme that!
Gimme that canteen...
- He's VC! He tried to-
- Any man... that's brave enough to figh-
Get out of here!
I'll kick your fuckin' ass!
He killed a lot of our people!
Any man brave enough to fight
with his guts strapped on him,
can drink from my canteen, any day!
Hey, Colonel, I think one of those
Sailors is Lance Johnson, the surfer.
- Where? Here? You sure?
- Down there.
Yeah? Here.
Repeat, we have a body count. We have...
What's your name, Sailor?
Gunner's Mate Third Class, L. Johnson, sir!
- Gunner's Mate Third Class—
- Alright. Lance Johnson, the surfer?
Yes, sir.
Well, it's an honor to meet you, Lance.
I've admired your nose-riding for years!
I like your cutback, too. I think
you have the best cutback there is.
- Hey, thank you, sir.
- You can cut out the "sir" crap, Lance.
I'm Bill Kilgore. I'm a goofy foot.
- This guy with ya?
- Yeah.
I want you to meet some guys.
This is Mike from San Diego.
- Far out.
- Johnny from Malibu.
- John, hi. Far out.
- Pretty solid surfers.
None of us are anywhere
near your class, though.
No way.
We do- we do a lot of surfing around here, Lance.
I like to finish operations early,
fly down to Vung Tau
for the evening glass.
Been riding since you got here?
No way!
I haven't surfed since I've been here!
Through Christ our Lord,
from whom all good things come.
Through Him,
in the unity of the Holy Spirit,
all glory and honor is yours,
almighty Father. Amen.
Let us pray with confidence to the Father,
in the words our Savior gave us.
Our Father who art in heaven,
hallowed be thy name.
Thy kingdom come, thy will be done
on earth as it is in heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread—
As we forgive those
who trespass against us;
lead us not into temptation,
but deliver us from evil.
Kilgore'd had
a pretty good day for himself.
They choppered in the t-bones and the beer,
and turned the LZ into a beach party.
The more they tried to
make it just like home,
the more they made everybody miss it.
Make my meat rare, rare but not cold!
Well, he wasn't a bad Officer, I guess.
He loved his boys
and you felt safe with him.
He was one of those guys that
had that weird light around him.
You just knew he wasn't gonna
get so much as a scratch, here.
What happened to your mission, Captain?
Nha Trang forget all about you?
Airborne.
Sir, two places we can
get into the river...
- Yeah.
- Here and here.
It's a pretty wide delta, but these
are the only two spots I'm really sure of.
Well, that village you're
pointing at is kind of hairy, Willard.
- What do you mean "hairy," sir?
- It's hairy...
Got some pretty heavy ordnance.
I lost a few recon ships
in there, now and again.
What's the name of that Goddamn village?
Vin Drin...
- Dop.
- "Dop" or "Lop?"
Damn gook names all sound the same.
Mike, you know anything
about this point at Vin Drin Dop?
That's a fantastic peak!
- Peak?
- About six foot.
Yeah, it's an outstanding peak.
It's got both the long right and left slide
with a- with a bowl section!
It's unbelievable. It's just tube city.
Well, why didn't you tell me that before?
"A good peak."
There aren't any good peaks
in this whole shitty country.
- It's all Goddamn beach break.
- It's really hairy in there, sir.
That's where we lost McDonald.
They shot the hell out of us, there.
That's Charlie's point.
Sir, we can go in there tomorrow, at dawn.
There's always a good
offshore breeze in the morning.
We may not be
able to get the boat in.
The draft at the mouth of
that river may be too shallow.
Yeah, we'll pick your boat up and put it
down like a baby, right where you want it.
This is the First of the Ninth Air-Cav, son.
Airmobile!
I can take that point
and hold it just as long as I like,
and you can get any place up that
river that suits you, young Captain.
Hell, a six-foot peak...
All right, take a gunship
back to the division.
Lance, go with Mike
and let him pick out a board for ya,
and bring me my Yater Spoon,
the eight-six.
- I don't know, sir, it's, uh—
- What is it, Soldier?
Well, I mean, it's pretty hairy in there.
It's- it's Charlie's point!
Charlie don't surf!
Hey, Jesus, Clean,
you ain't gonna believe this. Look.
Hey, man!
They're pickin' up the boat!
- How are you feelin', Jimmy?
- Like a mean motherfucker, sir!
All right, son, let her rip.
Let's go!
I never have
gotten used to a light board,
and I can't get used to one.
I'm used to a heavy board.
I know, it's a real drag.
- Do you prefer a heavy or a light board?
- Heavier.
- Really?
- Yeah!
I thought all the young
guys like lighter boards.
You can't- can't ride
the nose on those things—
Big Duke Six, this is, uh...
Eagle Thrust Seven.
We've got it spotted.
Big Duke Six to Eagle Thrust,
put on heading 2-7-0.
Assume attack formation.
That's a Roger, Big Duke.
Okay, we're going in.
- Lance.
- Huh?
We'll come in low out of the rising sun,
and about a mile out,
we'll put on the music.
- Music?
- Yeah, I use Wagner.
Scares the hell out of the slopes.
My boys love it!
Hey, they're gonna play music!
How come all you guys sit on your helmet?
So we don't get our balls blown off!
Big Duke Six to Eagle Thrust:
put on 'Psy War Op', make it loud.
This is a Romeo Foxtrot. Shall we dance?
- Jimmy!
- Yes, sir!
Run, Charlie!
We got some...
We got some more goin' down there...
Look out, automatic .50-Cal!
.50-Cal in the open!
I've spotted a large weapon down below.
We're gonna go down and check it out.
All right, this is Fox Five.
We're going in...
- All right. What a shot.
- Outstanding, Red Team. Outstanding.
Get you a case of beer for that.
6-4-1-0,
we're over the, uh, village right now.
I think I see a vehicle,
down in the courtyard.
- I'm gonna check it out.
- Well done, Hawks. Well done.
I want some 20 Mike-Mike Vulcan,
right along those tree lines.
Ripple the shit out of 'em.
I got a vehicle on the bridge,
.50 caliber on-board.
He's moving across to resupply the weapon.
Big Duke Six, clear the area.
I'm coming down, myself.
Don't these people ever give up?
Nice shot, Bill!
- Shit!
- All right, all right!
- It's just a flare!
- It's a flare! Gotta get out of here!
Un-ass that shit. Get it out of here!
Get it out. Get it out. It's just a flare.
It's all right. It's just a flare.
- Everybody all right? Lance, you all right?
- I'm fine!
Get down!
I'm not goin'!
I'm not goin'! I'm not goin'!
Yeah, we just got a Secondaries,
down there in the Plaza.
Blue Three, Blue Four,
hold out over position—
Duke Six, Duke Six, uh,
we've got wounded down there.
My God! Oh, my God!
- Get a stretcher over here!
- You're all right.
Please! Help me!
- Please, God! Help me!
- Stay with me, son, you're gonna be okay.
- Let's give him some morphine.
- My God! My God!
- 0-3-7-7-4-2.
- Where's that duster?!
I want my wounded out of there
and in the hospital in 15 minutes.
I want my men out.
Somebody stay in
there tight with Big Duke.
This is Ten-Two. Uh, we're gonna
be in, throw 'em on and get out—
She's got a grenade! She's got a grenade!
Jesus! The whole Goddamn thing just—
- She blew the shit out of—
- Fucking savages...
Can I get a MedEvac?
- What's goin' on over there?
- Holy Christ, she's a SAP.
I'm gonna get that dink bitch.
Get over there, Johnny. Go in there.
Put that right skid right up her ass.
We gotta get some air in these trees.
It's Goddamn eat-up with enemy down there.
I'm takin' fire.
I'm takin' hits all over—
Three o'clock! Three o'clock, my position!
Drawin' fire, drawin' heavy fire!
I'm hit! Mayday! Mayday! I'm going in.
My tail rotor's out. I got control.
- What do you think?
- Wow, this is really exciting, man!
- No, no! The waves! The waves!
- Oh, right.
Look at that, breaks both ways.
Watch. Watch.
Look! Good six-foot swells!
Come here, Lance.
Incoming!
This LZ is still pretty hot, sir!
Maybe you ought to surf somewhere else!
What do you know about surfing, Major?!
You're from Goddamn New Jersey.
Come here! Come here!
- Change!
- You mean right now, sir?
I wanna see how rideable that stuff is.
Go change.
It's still pretty hairy out there, sir.
- Do you wanna surf, Soldier?
- Yes, sir.
That's good, son, 'cause you either
surf or fight. That clear? Now, get goin'.
I'll cover for 'em.
And bring a board for Lance!
We can't do shit till the boat gets here.
Lance...
I'll bet you can't wait to get out there.
- What?
- See how they break both ways?
One guy can break right, one left,
simultaneous. What do you think of that?
Bill, I think we ought to wait
for the tide to come up!
- Hey, hey, Lance, come here. Look. Look!
- Incoming!
The tide doesn't come in for six hours!
You wanna wait here for six hours?!
Yo! Hey! Chief!
Okay, fellas,
quit hiding. Come on!
- Let's go, dickheads, take off!
- Aw, come on! God damn it!
Don't you think
it's a little risky for R&R?!
If I say it's safe to surf this beach,
Captain, it's safe to surf this beach!
I mean, I'm not afraid to surf this place!
I'll surf this fucking place!
Give me that R-T, Soldier.
Dove Four, this is Big Duke Six.
Goddamnit!
I want that tree line bombed!
Big Duke Six, Roger.
Dove One-Three, stand by.
Blow 'em into the Stone Age, son!
ASAP, out!
No, ma'am, no!
All right, now. Let me take care of this.
You all right?
Get that out of here!
- I'm sorry.
- Come here, now. All right.
- No, ma'am. Sorry! You can't go!
- Jimmy!
Hawk One-Two,
Dove One-Three, Roger.
They need some napalm,
down there in the tree line.
Can you guys push ground?
I'm tryin' to put it down, here.
Right, One-Three. We're fixed
to fuck with 'em. What's the target?
We're tryin' to suppress some
mortar fire off the tree line, down there.
Roger. Here we come.
Good, give it all you got.
Bring in all your ships.
Wing abreast.
MedEvac him in my chopper!
Get him back to the hospital!
No, no, no, you gotta go with him!
Come on! Go! Go!
Get it out of here!
And tell my guys I want my board!
Brig Duke Six,
this is Dove One-Three.
The jets are inbound, now.
You got about 30 seconds to on-station.
Get your people back and heads down.
This is gonna be a big one.
Don't worry. We'll have this place
cleaned up and ready in a jiffy, son.
Don't you worry.
Give me those shorts.
These are from the Air-Cav,
a present from me and the boys.
I want to see you do your
stuff in 'em, out there. Okay?
You see that?!
You smell that?
- Do you smell that?
- What?
Napalm, son.
Nothing else in the world
smells like that.
Come on.
Move it! Move it! Move it!
I love the smell of napalm in the morning.
You know, one time we had
a hill bombed... for 12 hours.
And when it was all over, I walked up...
We didn't find one of 'em,
not one stinking dink body.
But the smell, you know,
that gasoline smell...
The whole hill...
it smelled like...
victory.
Someday, this war's gonna end.
- Lance, the wind!
- Huh?
- The wind!
- What?
It's blowin' on shore! It's comin' on shore.
It's gonna blow this place out!
- It's gonna ruin it!
- Not cool! It's gonna blow out!
It's the Goddamn napalm!
That's what's doin' it!
I know. I'm really sorry, Colonel,
but I'm afraid that does it.
Okay, the kid's got a reputation.
You can't expect him to surf those sloppy waves.
- I understand what you're saying.
- Yeah, I'm an artist, Bill.
- I couldn't surf that stuff.
- Lance, look...
I apologize! It's not my fault!
The waves are gettin'
blown out by the napalm!
Hey, Bill, don't get me wrong—
It was the bombs causin'
a vortex with the wind!
I accept your apology.
All right, then. But if you...
could hang around just 20 minutes!
- Maybe some other time, Bill.
- Just 20 minutes! Okay?
- I'm an artist!
- Keep walkin'!
Okay, give it a try, guys!
One goes left and one goes right.
Look, Lance...
- You through surfin'?
- Yeah!
- Want to say goodbye to the Colonel?
- No.
- You sure?
- Yeah!
Let's get the fuck out of here!
It's the fuckin' napalm!
Just wait 20 minutes!
Lance! Fuck!
We've been lookin' for you!
- Don't leave without me!
- Where the fuck you goin'?
Incoming!
- The Colonel's surfboard!
- Get the fuck off me! It's mine!
- Guys, help me!
- Get the board and let's get out of here!
Fucking Airborne!
- Lance.
- Chef, light up, man.
Come on, man. Let's get high.
- Want to smoke?
- Let's do it, man. Light up.
"Someday this war's gonna end."
That would be just fine
with the boys on the boat.
They weren't looking
for anything more than a way home.
Captain?
Trouble is, I'd been back there...
and I knew that it
just didn't exist anymore.
Buddha time. Here.
All right, that's great,
you motherfuckers. Yeah.
If that's how Kilgore fought the war,
I began to wonder what
they really had against Kurtz.
It wasn't just insanity and murder.
There was enough of that
to go around for everyone.
I mean,
he never was hurtin' for pussy.
I'm not here.
I'm walking through the jungle
gathering mangoes.
I meet Raquel Welch.
I make a nice mango cream pudding,
Y'know, kind of spread it around on us.
She's into mangoes, too.
She's, like, one limb above me.
We're both in the jungle here, nude.
- Hey, Chief!
- Yeah?
Here comes that Colonel guy, again.
You know how hard it is
to find a board you like?
I will not hurt or harm you.
Just give me back the board, Lance.
It was a good board, and I like it.
You know how hard it is
to find a board you like.
He's a determined motherfucker!
I will not hurt or harm you.
- Cocksucker!
- I will not hurt or harm you.
Just give me back the board, Lance.
It was a good board, and I like it.
You know how hard it is
to find a board you like.
I will not hurt or harm you.
Jesus Christ.
That guy's too fuckin' much, man.
Do you think he would have shot us?
He wouldn't have shot us on the beach,
but I think he would have shot
us if he saw me takin' his board.
"Let's go surfin', now...
Everybody's learnin' how..."
Let's get this board outta my turret.
Sucker.
Sock it to me, Lance.
I wonder if that's the same chopper.
Oh, hell, he's probably got 'em all
over the river with that recording.
We'll have to hole up here till dark, Chief.
Don't worry, Lance.
He won't follow us too far.
- What makes you say that?
- You think that Big Cav Colonel
wants everyone upriver
to know we stole his board?
I didn't steal it!
- Captain?
- Mm?
Just how far up this river we goin'?
It's classified, Chief. I can't tell you.
We're goin' up pretty far.
Is it gonna be hairy?
I don't know, kid.
Yeah, probably.
You like it like that, Captain,
when it's hot, hairy?
Fuck...
Never get a chance to know what the fuck
you are in some factory in Ohio.
Hey, Chief, I'm gonna go get
those mangoes now, okay?
- Take somebody with you.
- Yeah, I'll take, uh...
I'll go with him.
Chef?
- Yes, sir?
- How come they call you that?
- Call me what, sir?
- "Chef."
- Because you like mangoes and stuff?
- No, sir, I'm a real Chef.
- I'm a Saucier.
- Saucier?
Yes, sir.
See, I come from New Orleans.
I was raised to be a Saucier.
A great Saucier.
- What's a "Saucier"?
- We specialize in sauces.
Gotta be a mango tree here, somewhere.
Then I... I was supposed to go to Paris,
study at the Escoffier School.
But then I got, uh, orders for my physical.
Hell, I joined the Navy.
Heard they had better food.
A "Cook School."
That did it.
- Oh, yeah? How's that?
- Oh, you don't want to hear about that...
They lined us up in front
of 100 yards of prime rib...
All of us. You know,
lined up, lookin' at it?
Magnificent meat, really!
Beautifully marbled...
"Magnifique!"
Next thing, they're throwin'
the meat into these big cauldrons....
All of it! Boiling it!
I looked inside, man.
It was turning gray...
I couldn't fuckin' believe that one!
That's when I applied for Radioman School,
but then they gave me the Engine—
What is it?
Charlie?
It's a tiger!
Tiger, man! It's a tiger!
Battle Stations! Lance, up front!
- On the .60, Clean!
- You got it, man.
Holy shit.
- Chef, come on!
- Fucking tiger!
- Captain, come on!
- What's happening?!
- Let's go!
- Tiger!
Chief, you were right!
"Never get out of the fuckin' boat!"
- Clean, bring that .60 forward!
- "Never get out of the boat!"
"Never get out of the boat!"
I gotta remember! I gotta remember!
- What happened? How many is it?
- A fucking tiger!
- What?!
- "Tiger?"
- Yes! I've had it!
I've had the whole
Goddamn fucking shit, man!
You can kiss my ass on the county square,
'cause I'm fuckin' buggin' out...
I didn't come here for this!
I don't fuckin' need it! I don't want it!
I didn't get out of the Goddamn
eighth grade for this kind of shit!
All I wanted to do was fuckin' cook!
I just wanted to learn
to fuckin' cook, man!
- It's all right... It's all right...
- Hey, Goddamn! What happened, bro?
You're all right...
You're gonna be all right..
- All right... It's all right...
- You're all right.
It's gonna be all right...
"Never get out of the fucking boat..."
Hi, tiger! Bye, tiger! Goodbye!
"Never get out of the boat."
Absolutely Goddamn right.
Unless you were goin' all the way.
Kurtz got off the boat.
He split from the whole fuckin' program.
How did that happen?
What did he see here, that first tour?
Thirty-eight fucking years old.
If you joined the Green Berets, there
was no way you'd ever get above Colonel.
Kurtz knew what he was giving up.
And the more I read, and began
to understand, the more I admired him.
His family and friends
couldn't understand it.
And they couldn't talk him out of it.
He had to apply three times,
and he put up with a ton of shit.
But when he threatened to resign,
they gave it to him.
The next youngest guy
in his class was half his age.
They must have thought
he was some far-out old man,
humpin' it over that course.
I did it when I was 19,
and it damn near wasted me.
A tough motherfucker...
He finished it.
He could have gone for General,
but he went for himself, instead.
"Dear Eva,
"today was really a new one.
Almost got eaten alive by a fuckin' tiger.
"Really UN-fuckin'-believable, you know?
"We're takin' this guy, Captain Willard,
up the river,
"but he hasn't told us
yet where we're takin' him."
"Thought you might have heard by
now from Elwood. I'll be comin' home—“
October 1967,
on special assignment, Kon Tum Province,
II Corps.
Kurtz staged Operation Archangel
with combined local forces.
Rated a major success.
He received no official clearance.
He just thought it up and did it.
What balls.
They were gonna nail his ass
to the floorboards, for that one.
But after the press got a hold of it,
they promoted him to full Colonel instead.
Oh, man...
the bullshit piled up so fast in Vietnam,
you needed wings to stay above it.
This sure enough is a bizarre
sight in the middle of this shit.
Expectin' us this time?
Damned if I know.
- Hello? Hello?
- Jesus...
Everything goes
back up into the truck.
What?
- Yeah, we gotta get all that stuff up—
- Yeah, into the truck.
Hau Phat...
You ever been up here before, Chef?
- Let's go!
- I bet you we can score up here.
Yo, man, check out the bikes, Lance.
Yamaha, Suzuki. Yeah!
- That's a good one!
- Yeah, Sukiyaki.
Yeah, man. This is something.
Please!
- This must be the guy, right?
- Right over there.
Sergeant. Sergeant?
Three drums of diesel fuel, PBR 5.
Come on, man! Move! We don't have time.
One hour. That's all. What do you want?
Can I get some Panama Red with it?
"Panama Red"? Yeah, I'll get you Panama Red.
- Sergeant?
- Destination?
- I don't have no destination.
- I can't do a Goddamn thing
without a destination.
You got a destination?
- Sergeant.
- I need diesel fuel.
All right. You got a destination?
I need a destination.
I can't do a Goddamn
thing without a destination.
Hey, Sarge, sorry,
these guys are with me.
Destination's classified.
I carry priority papers from
COMSEC Intelligence, II Corps.
Okay, right, sir...
Hey, listen, it's a real big night—
Eight bucks for that, camo.
All right. Damn.
- Just give him some fuel.
- You got it.
- Dog starts barking.
- Hey, listen, Captain.
I'm really sorry about tonight.
It's, uh, really bad around here, and...
Just take this over to the man
at the supply desk and you got it.
Hey, listen, would you guys like, uh, some
seats, some press box seats for the show?
You want those?
- $500 a piece? C'mon, man.
- The show! The show, out here!
- Bunnies!
- Who? Bugs Bunny? The Playboy Bunnies?
You got it.
Hey, you gonna be here?
Hey, listen, Captain...
On the house. No hard feelings, huh?
How you doing out there?
I said, “how you doing out there?"
Want to say hello to you from all of us,
up here... to all of you, out there...
who worked so Goddamn hard
in Operation Brute Force!
Hello, all you Paratroopers out there!
And the Marines! And the Sailors!
We want to let you know
that we're proud of you!
'Cause we know how tough
and how hard it's been.
Yeah!
And to prove it, we're gonna give you some
entertainment we know you're gonna like!
Miss August, Miss Sandra Beatty.
Miss May, Miss Terry Teray! Yeah!
And the Playmate of the Year:
Miss Carrie Foster! Yeah!
- Check that out! Ho-ho!
- Get the fuck out of the way!
Hello, up there!
Let's play Cowboys and Indians!
- Hey man, what's the matter?
- C'mon!
I want that girl's push-up brazzier, tonight!
- Woo-hoo!
- Rock 'n' Roll!
Grease my gun!
I'm ready to bow-wow, baby!
You're cute. I like you, sweetie!
I'm here, baby! I'm here!
Oh, my God, help me!
Yeah!
- You fucking bitch!
- Take it off!
Take it off!
Hey, lover!
You want us to come over?
- I sure do!
- Sign my centerfold!
- Take it off! Take it off!
Sign my centerfold!
Come on, baby! Come up here, now.
Get your Goddamn hands off of my girl!
Start her up.
Come on!
Will you sign these?
Girls! Let's go!
So long!
Charlie didn't get much USO.
He was dug in too deep or moving too fast.
His idea of great R&R was
cold rice and a little rat meat.
He had only two ways home,
death or victory.
No wonder Kurtz put
a weed up Command's ass...
The war was being run
by a bunch of Four-Star Clowns
who were gonna end up
giving the whole circus away.
Man, you know, man
that was far-fuckin'-out...
I collected every picture of her
since she was Miss December, Chief.
Hey, Clean, look at that...
She was here, man!
I even wrote to the cunt.
She didn't write me back.
You can really get hung
up on these broads, man,
just like that cat in the delta.
- Yeah, you better believe it.
- What cat?
The one that went up for murder.
He was an Army Sergeant.
Remember? This cat, man,
he really dug his Playboy, man.
I mean like, this cat, when the thing arrived,
he was there to meet it, man.
He just knew!
Look at these beautiful fuckin' jugs, man!
Yeah. So anyway,
he was working ARVN patrols, you know,
had one of them cocky gook
asshole Lieutenants and shit.
And one day, the gook took his magazine
from him and wouldn't give it back to him.
He said, “give me my magazine back."
Gook said,
"You shut up. I have you court-martial."
Y'know?
- Typical fuckin' ARVN, man...
- Yeah, man...
- So, like then, the gook starts to go too far, see.
- Chef, take the wheel.
This dude started to stick
pinholes in the lady's titties.
- Take the wheel.
- Right, well...
He started stickin'... pinholes
and mutilatin' the centerfold,
and all kinds of shit like that.
And the Sergeant said,
"you better not do that to her.
"You leave your shitty little
gook hands off of that girl.
"Don't do her like that," right?
- Gook say, "fuck you," in Vietnamese, yeah?
- Damn.
The Sergeant, man,
he just couldn't handle it no more.
He just picked up his iron,
flipped it to Rock 'n' Roll and...
Gave that little zero a long burst,
straight through the Playboy mag,
and blew his ass clean off of the dock.
There wasn't no more Lieutenant that day.
That was it for his ass.
- They burn him for it?
- The Sergeant? Yeah, man.
They stuck his ass in the LBJ.
It's too bad he didn't
get no medals or nothing.
Fuckin' ARVN, man.
They should have killed the fuck.
Should have given
the fucker a Silver Star.
Bummer for the gook, though, ain't it?
Good morning, Vietnam.
I'm Army Specialist Zack Johnson on AFVN.
It's about 82 degrees in downtown
Saigon right now, also very humid.
And we have an
important message for all GIs
who are living off-base,
from the Mayor of Saigon.
Yeah!
He'd like you to hang your laundry up
indoors instead of on the windowsills.
The mayor wants you
to keep Saigon beautiful.
And now, here's another blast
from the past going out to Big Sam,
who's all alone in the Mantle Room out there,
with the First Battalion, 35th Infantry,
and dedicated by the fire team
at An Khe to their groovy CO...
Brett "The Head"...
- The Rolling Stones - Satisfaction.
- Ooh! All right!
Work out, Clean!
Get down, Bubba!
Hang on, Lance!
"I can't get no!"
Yeah!
- I see you is right on target.
- Say that, again...
Workout! Yeah! Yeah! Yeah!
All right!
Look out, Lance!
Sayonara!
"Commitment
and Counter-Insurgency,
"by Colonel Walter E. Kurtz.
"As long as our officers and troops
perform tours of duty, limited to one year,
"they will remain dilettantes
in war and tourists in Vietnam.
"As long as cold beer, hot food,
rock 'n' roll,
"and all the other
amenities remain the expected norm,
"our conduct of the war
will gain only impotence.
"We need fewer men and better.
"If they were committed, this war could be
won with a fourth of our present force."
- Shit.
- Holy shit.
Chicken time. You ain't shittin', bro.
They're motherfuckin'...
- Who is that?
- What's goin' on?
It's chicken time, dude!
Go full power, man!
Is that you, Lazzaro?
- Fire on the canopy!
- I got it! Get out of there!
Get out! I got it! Yeah! I got it!
- Lance, get down!
- Put that fucker out, man!
What the fuck they think they're doin'?
Late Summer, Autumn 1968.
Kurtz's patrols in the
highlands coming under frequent ambush.
The camp started falling apart.
November.
Kurtz orders assassination of
three Vietnamese men and one woman.
Two of the men were Colonels
in the South Vietnamese Army.
Enemy activity in his old
sector dropped off to nothing.
Guess he must have hit
the right four people.
"He joined the Special Forces.
And after that, his, uh...
The Army tried one last
time to bring him back into the fold.
"Methods..."
And if he'd pulled over,
it all would have been forgotten.
"Unsound."
But he kept going...
ㅤ
"Now, he's crossed into Cambodia..."
And he kept winning it his way...
ㅤ
"With this Montagnard Army of his..."
And they called me in.
ㅤ
"...man like a God. And follow
every order, however ridiculous."
They lost him.
He was gone.
Nothing but rumors
and random Intelligence,
mostly from captured VC.
The VC knew his name by now,
and they were scared of him.
He and his men were playing hit-and-run,
all the way into Cambodia.
I know where I'm goin'.
I'm goin' to the White House
to have dinner with the
President of the United States, baby.
That's where I'm goin'.
Hey, Chef, put the cover on that.
Clean...
- How long has that kid been on this boat?
- Seven months.
He's really specializing
in busting my balls.
Very possible, Captain,
he thinks the same of you.
Oh, yeah? What do you think, Chief?
I don't think.
My orders say I'm not supposed to know
where I'm takin' this boat, so I don't!
But one look at you, and I know
it's gonna be hot, wherever it is.
We're goin' upriver about 75
klicks above the Do Luong Bridge.
- That's Cambodia, Captain.
- That's Classified.
We're not supposed to be in Cambodia,
but that's where I'm goin'.
You just get me close to my destination,
and I'll cut you and the crew loose.
All right, Captain.
"Dear son,
"I'm afraid that both you
and your mother will have been worried
"at not hearing from me
during the past weeks.
"But my situation here
has become a difficult one.
"I have been officially
accused of murder by the Army.
"The alleged victims were
four Vietnamese double agents.
"We spent months uncovering
them and accumulating evidence.
"When absolute proof was completed,
we acted, we acted like Soldiers.
"The charges are unjustified.
"They are, in fact,
"and in the circumstances
of this conflict, quite completely insane.
"In a war, there are many moments
for compassion and tender action.
"There are many moments for ruthless
action, what is often called 'ruthless,'
"what may, in many circumstances,
be only clarity.
"Seeing clearly what there
is to be done and doing it."
- "... directly, quickly, awake..."
- Alpha tango tango.
- Echo Tango Alpha...
- "...Looking at it."
Request Dust-Off.
Three, maybe four KIAs. Over.
"I will trust you to tell your
mother what you choose about this letter.
"As for the charges against me,
I am unconcerned."
"I am beyond their timid, lying morality.
"And so I am beyond caring."
"You have all my faith.
Your loving father."
Shove it, fuck-up!
I sure am sorry about that!
If I had known, I'd have
taken you to New Orleans...
- Man, fuck you.
- Introduce you to Cooze, Bubba!
You're a fucking dog!
Come on down to New Orleans, Bubba,
- and I'll get you fixed up, you prick.
- Lay off him, Chef.
You're the only fuckin'
prick I see around here.
And if I want to play with a prick,
I'll play with my own!
- Lay off, Chef!
- What you gonna do with it, cherry boy?
- Fucking cherry boy!
- Chef, I said lay off!
Chef, knock it off! Give him a break!
What do you think I said?
And give your jaws a rest!
And this ain't the Army. You are a Sailor!
So get out of that frizzly Army-lookin' shit,
and stop smokin' that dope!
You hear me?!
Lance, what's with all the green paint?
- Camouflage.
- How's that?
So they can't see ya.
They're everywhere, Chief.
Uh-huh. I want you to stay awake
up there, man. You got a job to do...
Sampan off the port bow. Sampan
off the port bow. Let's take a look.
Lance. Bring 'em in.
Clean, on the .60. Chef, get a 16.
Clean, get on that .60!
What's up, Chief?
A junk boat, Captain.
We're gonna take a routine check.
Well, let's forget routine now,
and let 'em go.
These boats are runnin'
supplies in this delta, Captain.
I'm gonna take a look.
Chief, my mission's got priority, here.
Hell, you wouldn't even be in this
part of the river if it wasn't for me.
Until we reach your destination, Captain,
you're just on for the ride...
- Stand by, Lance.
- Come on, throw the rope, asshole.
All right. Come on.
Let's bring it over.
Look in that forward hooch.
Bring the people out of there.
Come on! Hurry up, motherfucker!
Move it!
- You two, come on.
- Keep your eyes open, Clean.
I got you, Chief.
It's clear, Chief.
Okay, that's them.
That's them. They're okay.
Board and search it.
It's just a fuckin' boat.
There ain't nothin' on it, Chief.
Board it and search it.
Just some baskets and some ducks...
fuckin' bananas...
- There ain't nothin' on it...
- Don't be ashamed, Chef.
- What's wrong with you? Go on and search it.
- Look...
There's the goat...
And some fish...
- Chef!
- Bunch of fuckin' vegetables—
- Get on that boat!
- There's nothin' on that fuckin' boat—
There's nothin' on it, man!
- Get on it!
- Fine! All right!
Move it, asshole! Move it!
God damn it! Just some pigs...
Look, mangoes...
- What's in the rice bag?
- Fuckin' rice!
- Look in there, Chef! Look in it!
- Some fuckin' fish...
More coconuts. Rice. Here's rice!
What's in that vegetable basket?
Get out of here! C'mon!
Get over there, God damn it.
Chef, check that vegetable basket!
- All right!
- Shut up, Slope!
- There ain't nothin' in here!
- What's in the boxes?
Not a fuckin' thing...
- Look in that tin can.
- Nothin'...
- That rusty can.
- It's just fuckin' rice, and that's all!
- There ain't nothin' on it!
- Check the yellow can.
Check the yellow can!
She was sittin' on it. What's in it?
Chef!
Motherfuckers!
Motherfuckin' gooks!
Cocksuckers!
- Hold it! Hold it!
- Come on, let's kill them all, huh, idiots?!
- Fucking cocksucking mothers!
- Hold it! Hold it!
Let's kill all the assholes!
Shoot the shit out of all of 'em, huh?!
- Hold it, Chef, hold it!
- Why not? Jesus Christ...
Why the fuck not?
- Clean?
- I'm good.
- You okay, Lance?
- Cocksucking mother fucker! Shit!
- Chef!
- Look what she was hidin', huh?!
- You all right?
- See what she was runnin' for?!
It's a fuckin' puppy!
It's a fuckin' puppy...
Gimme that dog.
- No, you're not gonna get it!
- Fucking give it to me!
No! Give me the fuckin'
dog, you asshole!
Fuck you!
- Chef, she—
- A fuckin' mango, too!
You want that?!
Chef, she's movin' behind you.
She's alive. Check her out.
You can fuckin' have it.
- Chef!
- Yes?!
She's movin' behind you!
Check her out!
All right. All right.
- Come on, Clean, God damn it.
- She's not dead, she's wounded.
- Give me a hand.
- Clean, give him a hand.
Just take it easy, there! Take it easy!
Slow down and take it easy.
All right, Chef, just wait a minute.
Wait a minute, Chef.
- Bring her up, here...
- Is she breathin', Chef?
- She's hurt... She's bleedin'...
- Oh, man...
Bring her on board.
We're takin' her to an ARVN.
What are you talkin' about?
We're takin' her to some friendlies, Captain.
She's wounded, she's not dead.
- Get out of there, Chef.
- The book says, Captain—
Fuck you...
Fuck him...
I told you not to stop.
Now, let's go.
It was the way we had
over here of living with ourselves.
We'd cut them in half with a machine gun
and give them a band-aid.
It was a lie.
And the more I saw of them,
the more I hated lies.
Those boys were never gonna
look at me the same way, again.
But I felt like I knew one
or two things about Kurtz
that weren't in the dossier...
Do Luong Bridge was the last
Army outpost on the Nung River.
Beyond that, there was only Kurtz.
Lance! Hey, Lance, what do you think?
It's beautiful...
Huh? I mean, what's the matter with you?
You actin' kind of weird.
Hey, you know that last
tab of acid I was saving?
- Yeah.
- I dropped it.
You dropped acid? Far out.
- Take me home!
- God damn you!
God damn!
You'll get what you deserve!
Is there a Captain Willard on board?
- Yeah!
- Captain Willard?
- Yeah, who's that?
- Lieutenant Carlsen, sir.
Get that light off me!
I was sent here from Nha Trang
with these three days ago, sir.
Expected you here a little sooner.
This is mail for the boat.
You don't know how happy
this makes me, sir...
- Why?
- Now I can get out of here,
if I can find a way.
You're in the asshole
of the world, Captain!
Captain, where you goin'?
See if I can find some fuel,
get some information.
- Pick me up the other side of the bridge.
- Somebody go with him. Chef!
I'll go. I wanna go.
You get your ass in gear.
Come on, man.
Listen to the music, man.
Where can I find the CO?
You came right to it,
son of a bitch!
Lance! Get down here!
You still got a Commanding Officer, here?
- Beverly Hills.
- What?
Straight up the road, there's a concrete
fuckin' bunker called Beverly Hills.
Where the fuck else do
you think it would be?
God damn it,
you stepped in my face!
- We thought you were dead.
- Well, you thought wrong, damn it.
I done told you to stop
fuckin' with me, didn't I?
You think you're so bad, huh, nigga?
What are you shootin' at, Soldier?
Gooks, man! What the fuck you
think I'm shootin' at?!
Sir! I'm sorry, sir...
There are gooks out there by The Wire,
- but I think I killed them all.
- Oh, you ain't shot shit, man. Listen!
Oh, shit, he's trying to call his friends, man.
Send up a flare!
You think you're so bad, huh nigga?!
You think you bad, huh?!
They're all dead, stupid.
There's one still alive underneath them bodies.
Who's the Commanding Officer, here?
Ain't you?
You think you're so bad, huh?!
I got somethin' for your ass now, nigga!
Got somethin' for you, now!
He's underneath them bodies, man!
- Go get the roach, man.
- Go get the roach, nigga!
- I'm gonna go get the roach.
Roach. Roach. Roach.
Got slopes on The Wire, man.
Do ya hear 'em?
- Lance!
- Do ya hear 'em?
Go bust 'em!
Hey, GI, fuck you!
You hear him out there on The Wire, man?
- Yeah.
- I'll kill you, GI!
You need a flare?
No.
He's close, man.
He's real close.
GI, fuck you!
Hey, GI!
GI, fuck y—
Muthafucka...
Hey, Soldier...
Do you know who's in command, here?
Yeah.
Holy... shit!
Yo, Chief, man,
two guys just got blown off that bridge.
You hang on, man. You're gonna be okay.
- What's that?
- Mail, man.
Later on the mail! Watch them trees.
There's no diesel fuel,
but I picked up some ammo.
Let's move out.
- Did you find the CO, Captain?
- There's no fuckin' CO, here.
- Let's just get going.
- Which way, Captain?
You know which way, Chief.
You're on your own, Captain.
Do ya wanna go on?
Like this bridge: we build it every night,
Charlie blows it right back up again.
Just so the Generals
can say the road's open.
Think about it.
- Who cares?!
- Just get us upriver!
Chef, on the bow.
- Standby, Clean.
- Let's go!
Whose package is that?
- Shit, you got another one, Clean.
- No shit! Wait a minute, is that it?
- That's it, for you.
- Lance!
Mr. L.B. Johnson, there ya go!
Far out, man. All right.
I've been waiting for this one.
I got another one,
got a box from Eva.
"Lance, I'm fine. I'm fine, Lance.
"Sue and I went tripping to Disneyland.
Sue skinned her knee."
- I want to get back to Antoine's.
- "I remember the time we went..."
How could I fuckin' forget, man?
Beautiful.
"There could never be a place
like Disneyland, or could there?
"Let me know."
Jim, it's here. It really is here.
No, it really is here, though...
"There has been a new
development regarding your mission
"which we must now communicate to you.
"Months ago, a man was
ordered on a mission
"which was identical to yours.
"We have reason to believe that he
is now operating with Colonel Kurtz.
"Saigon was carrying him
MIA for his family's sake.
"They assumed he was dead.
"Then, they intercepted a letter
he tried to send to his wife."
Captain Richard Colby.
He was with Kurtz.
"Disneyland?"
Fuck, man, this is better than Disneyland.
"Charles Miller Manson
ordered the slaughter
"of all in the home anyway,
as a symbol of protest."
That's really weird, ain't it?
- 'Purple Haze,' look!
- Hey, Lance, put away that smoke.
- I got a tape from my mom...
- Chief, 'Rainbow Reality,' man.
Hey... Chief, get a good whiff...
Eva can't picture me in Vietnam.
She pictures me at home,
havin' a beer and watchin' TV.
Hey, Lance, man...
Hot potato! Hot potato!
I'm so glad you decided
to join the Navy—
Eva's not sure if she can have
a relationship with me, you know?
Here I am, 13,000 fuckin'
miles away...
tryin' to keep our relationship
"open," my ass...
That's much more than I can say
for some of your friends.
If this tape is any good,
I will have dad and the family
- send you a tape of their own...
- Hey, Lance...
There! Over there!
Get it, motherfuckers!
Lance! Chef!
- Chef, Chef, check out Clean!
- Captain, he's hit, he's hit! Clean's hit!
- Lance!
- Where'd the dog go?!
Lance! Lance, check out Clean!
Where's the dog?!
We gotta go back and get the dog!
Hey, Clean...
-It's always been nice to have...
- Hey...
Hey, Bubba!
Bubba, you can't die, you fucker!
- And so, I'm hoping...
- Hey, Bubba!
That pretty soon, not- not too soon,
but pretty soon,
I'll have a lot of grandchildren
to love and spoil,
and then when your wife get 'em back,
she'll be mad with me.
Ha, ha, ha.
Even aunt Jessie and mama will
come to celebrate your coming home.
Granny and dad are trying to
get enough money to get you a car.
But don't tell her,
because that's our secret.
Anyhow, do the right thing,
stay out of the way of the bullets,
and bring your heinie,
home all in one piece,
because we love you very much.
Love, Mama.
Oh, man...
You shouldn't have to be so young...
Clean...
Hold on.
Throw me the glasses.
Lance, take the 16 on the bow.
Chef. Chef! On the .60.
Fuck me...
Your are surrounded!
Go away!
Drop your weapons!
Don't shoot! Don't shoot!
They're French! They're French!
I'm droping my weapon!
Chef, pick up that weapon!
Pick it up! Pick it up!
Stand fast! Captain—
We are Americans!
We mean you no harm!
It's okay!
Drop your weapons!
All right, you men...
Put down your weapons.
We are Americans.
We are friends.
We are friends!
We are friends...
We lost one of our men.
We French always pay
respects to the dead of our allies.
You're all welcome.
My name is Hubert de Marais.
This is my family's plantation.
It has been such for 70 years.
And it will be such until we are all dead.
To my command!
Attention!
Shoulder!
Present arms!
Taps.
Captain, accept the flag of Tyrone Miller,
on behalf of a grateful nation.
This food is really wonderful, isn't it?
The wine, the sauces. I can't believe it.
Hey, can I speak with the Chef?
Chef speak only Vietnamese.
No kiddin'? He cooks like this
and he can't even speak French?
Hey, Lance, the Chef's a slope.
Hey, Lance...
You still need to study with Mr. Robert.
Let’s go.
Not too bad.
Everyone to bed, now.
This is Baudelaire.
It's a very cruel poem for children,
but they need it,
because life, sometime, is very cruel.
As you can see...
- Attacks repells by the family.
- Just for this war.
Viet Cong, 58.
North Vietnamese, 12.
South Vietnamese, 11.
"Americans...6?"
Yes, well, they were... perhaps mistake.
Ah, Roxanne...
You were curious to see
these Americans, weren’t you?
No, I was only hungry.
May I present Captain Willard?
He's of a Paratroop Regiment.
- Madame Sarrault.
- Captain.
“An angel passes...”
“…Let’s butcher it!”
Do you remember this story in Paris?
When the baron said, “Let’s cut the angel?”
I don’t think that is the subject tonight.
Oh, I'm sorry, Captain.
Was just a little story about Paris,
and people starving during the war.
They are around the table
and there was a silence.
Somebody said,"an angel is passing by."
So, uh, somebody said, "let's eat it!"
Oh...
How long... can you possibly stay here?
We stay forever.
No, no, I mean, uh...
when will you go back home, to France?
I mean, this is our home, Captain.
- Sooner or later you're gonna get—
- No!
Control yourself, please—
Silence!
You don't understand our mentality!
The French Officer mentality!
At first, we lose in Second World War!
I don't say that you Americans win,
but we lose!
- Oh, please—
- Silence! I'm speaking!
In Dien Bien Phu, we lose!
In Nigeria, we lose!
In Indochina, we lose!
But here, we don't lose!
This piece of earth, we keep it!
We will never lose that, never!
The Vietnamese are very intelligent.
You never know what they think.
The Russian want to help them.
"Come and give us some money.
We are all Communists.
"Chinese, give us gun.
We are all brothers!"
They hate the Chinese!
Maybe they hate American less
than the Russian and the Chinese...
I mean, if tomorrow,
the Vietnamese are Communists,
they will be
Vietnamese Communists.
And this is something that you
never understood, you American.
Well, actually, I don't know.
Maybe in the future we can
make something with the Viet Minh.
Don't you understand?
The VC say, "Go away! Go away!"
That's finished for all the
white people in Indochina!
If you're French, American...
That's all the same!
"Go!" They want to forget you.
Look at them!
Come on, Phillipe,
that's enough, now!
Look! This is the truth. An egg.
The white left...
The yellow... stay!
Come on, stay with us!
What's going on?
They don't want to face the truth!
- All you white people are shit.
- They are fighting! Fighting for freedom!
"Freedom"? Bullshit!
Dien Bien Phu is a trap.
All soldiers know they are already dead.
You know anything about Dien Bien Phu?
- Yeah, I know.
- No, you don't.
Not really.
Dien Bien Phu was an error, you know?
A military mistake.
A "mistake"? A voluntary mistake!
Voluntary!
Our Paratroopers jump at 90 meters.
I mean, you know, 90 meters, 70 meters?
I mean, that's crazy!
No Army in the world can do that!
And they only do that
to be dead with their friends.
The French Army was sacrificed...
Sacrificed by the politicians,
safe at home.
They put the Army in an impossible
situation where they couldn't win.
You exaggerate.
The students are marching in Paris,
protesting, demonstrating...
They stab the soldiers in the back...
The Soldier would open the grenade,
it wouldn't work!
A piece of paper would fall...
"Union des Femmes Françaises"
Union of French Women.
"We are for the Viets."
Traitors!
Communist traitors, at home!
Dien Bien Phu? Okay.
The French is shit.
No one cares. No one wants to—
You are bothering me, LaFavre!
Why don't you Americans learn from us?
From our mistakes?
Mon Dieu, with your Army, your strength,
your power,
you can win, if you want to!
Be kind and help this
poor LaFavre who fell, please.
You can win.
But, we know, I'm sure
we can make something, there...
I'm sure about it, you know?
I never do something
wrong to the people, here.
I'm sorry, you know, but the Communists
at home have never been traitors.
No, never traitors.
For me, Mendès-France was a Communist!
Mendès-France was a Socialist.
He was a Communist!
For me, it's simple!
Socialist.
How do you want the government to
win when it is Communist?
Communists have always worked for
peace wherever they are.
They killed the French Army,
which was the strongest in the world!
Because of who?
The Communists.
The Army destroyed itself by its
attitude toward the people here.
And why do you think that it did that?
Because it understood it had been
sacrificed by government Communists!
Socialists!
They were Communists!
Shut up.
Yeah...
Goodnight, sir.
Excuse me. I have to go.
Captain, good night.
- He was a Socialist, you know?
- I know we can stay.
I know that we can stay and
make practitioners. We can stay.
- Please show uncle to bed.
- Good evening, everyone.
- You know, we- we- we always
- Come on, we are leaving.
- help the people.
- Come. Let's go.ㅤ
- We work with the people.
- Yes, yes, we know...
So we can be friends as
soon as we are agreed.
So when you ask me why we
want to stay here, Captain...
We want to stay here because it's...ours.
It belongs to us.
It keeps our family together.
I mean, we fight for that!
While you American...
You are fighting for...
the biggest nothing in history.
Goodnight, Roxanne.
I apologize for my family, Captain.
We have all lost much, here.
Hubert, his wife and two sons.
And I have lost a husband.
I understand.
You are tired of the war.
I can see on your face.
It was the same in the eyes
of the soldiers of our war.
We call them
"Les Soldats Perdus."
The Lost Soldiers.
If you like, we can have some cognac.
I'll see about my men and...
The war will be still here, tomorrow.
Yeah, I guess you're right.
I noticed you had no wine at dinner.
No, I um... don't drink wine.
I do like cognac, but, uh...
I don't want any now, thank you.
Well...
then I—
I must drink alone.
Will you go back, after the war?
To America?
No.
Then you're like us. Your home is here.
Do you know why you can never
step into the same river twice?
I used to prepare a pipe for my husband.
It was the morphine he took
for the wounds he suffered in his heart.
He would rage and he would cry,
my Lost Soldier.
And I said to him,
"there are two of you, don't you see?
"One that kills and one that loves."
And he said to me,
"I don't know whether
I am an animal or a God."
But you are both.
You want more?
All that matters is that you are alive.
You are alive, Captain.
That's the truth.
There are two of you, don't you see?
One that kills...
and one that loves.
Can't see nothin'. We're stoppin'.
You're not authorized
to stop this boat, Chief.
I said I can't see a thing,
Captain. I'm stoppin' this boat.
I ain't riskin' no more lives.
I'm in command here, Goddammit.
You'll do what I say.
You see anythin', Chef?
Why don't they fuckin' attack, man?!
Watch it over here, Chief!
Got a stump.
Lance, on the .50...
He was close.
He was real close.
I couldn't see him yet,
but I could feel him.
As if the boat were being sucked upriver,
and the water was
flowing back into the jungle.
Whatever was going to happen,
it wasn't gonna be the way
they called it back in Nha Trang.
Arrows!
Fire!
Chef, open up! Fire!
Lance, fire!
Chef! Chef, it's okay! Quit firing!
They're just little toy arrows!
Cut it out! Quiet!
Chief, tell them to hold their fire!
They're just little sticks!
They're just tryin' to scare us!
Quiet!
You got us in this mess,
and now, you can't get us out
because you don't know
the hell you goin', do ya?!
Do ya?!
You son of a bitch! You bastard!
- Lance, get the wheel!
- Fire! Fire! Fire!
You savages!
Come and get it, you son of a bitches!
A spear...
My mission is to
make it up into Cambodia.
There's a Green Beret Colonel
up there who's gone insane,
and I'm supposed to kill him.
That's fuckin' typical! Shit!
Fuckin' Vietnam mission!
I'm short and we gotta go up there
so you can kill one of our own guys?!
That's fuckin' great!
That's just fuckin' great, man!
Shit! That's fuckin' crazy!
I mean, I thought you were
goin' in to blow up a bridge
or some fuckin'
railroad tracks or something!
- Sorry.
- No, no, wait, wait!
Wait, we'll go together! On the boat!
We'll go with you!
We'll go up there, but on the boat! Okay?
Part of me was
afraid of what I would find
and what I would do when I got there.
I knew the risks,
or imagined I knew.
But the thing I felt the most,
much stronger than fear,
was the desire to confront him.
Just keep movin'.
Lance, keep your hands away from the guns.
It's all right! It's all right!
It's all been approved!
I ain't comin' in there!
Them bastards attacked us!
Zap 'em with your siren, man!
Zap 'em with your siren!
There's mines over there
and mines over there, too!
And watch out! Those Goddamn
monkeys bite you, I'll tell you!
Ah. That's a pretty one.
Move it right in, toward me.
I'm an American! Yeah!
An American civilian. Hi, Yanks.
Hi, American.
American civilian. It's all right.
And you got the cigarettes.
And that's what I've been dreamin' about.
Chef.
- Who are you?
- Mm... who are you?
I'm a photojournalist.
I've covered the war since '64.
I've been in Laos, Cambodia and 'nam.
I'll tell you one thing,
this boat is a mess, man.
Who are all these people?
Yeah, well—
they think you've come to, uh...
to take him away...
- And I hope that isn't true.
- Take who away?
Him!
Colonel Kurtz.
These are all his children, man,
as far as you can see.
Hell, man, out here,
we're all his children.
Could we, uh...
talk to Colonel Kurtz?
Hey, man, you don't—
Uh, you don't talk to the Colonel.
Well, will you listen to him?
The man's enlarged my mind.
Uh, he's a poet warrior in the classic sense.
I mean, sometimes, he'll, uh—
Well, you'll say "hello" to him, right?
and, uh, he'll just walk right by
you and he won't even notice you.
And then, su-suddenly he'll grab you,
he'll throw you in a corner and he'll say,
"do you know that 'if' is the middle
word in 'life'? If you can keep your head
"when all about you are losing
theirs and blaming it on you,
"if you can trust yourself
when all men doubt you—"
I mean, I'm no—
I- I can't—
I'm a little man. I'm a little man.
He's... he's a great man.
Uh, uh—
"I should have been a pair of ragged claws
scuttling across
the floors of silent seas," I mean...
Stay with the boat.
Hey, don't go anywh—
Hey, don't go without me, okay?
I wanna get a picture.
He can be terrible, and he can be mean,
and he can be right.
He's fighting the war. He's a great man.
I mean...
I wish I had words, you know?
I wish I had words...
I can tell you something, like,
the other day, uh, he wanted to kill me.
- Somethin' like that.
- Why'd he want to kill you?
Because I took his picture.
He said, “if you take my picture again,
"I'm gonna kill you,"
and he meant it.
So you just lay cool.
Play it cool, laid back. Dig it.
He gets friendly, again. He really does.
But, uh, you don't— you don't, uh—
you don't judge the Colonel.
You don't judge the
Colonel like an ordinary man.
Okay, watch it, now.
These are Americans. Americans!
You can feel the vibe of this place.
Let me take your picture.
Hey, could you hol—
Hey, hello? Hello?
Could you hold up a minute?
Colby.
The heads...
You're lookin' at... the heads...
I, uh...
Sometimes, he goes too far,
and you know...
He's the first one to admit it.
- He's gone crazy...
- Wrong, wrong!
If you could have heard
the man, uh... just two days ago.
If you could have heard him, then, God...
You're gonna call him crazy?
Fuckin'-A...
It's—
I just wanna talk to him.
Well, man, he's gone away.
He's gone away. He disappeared
out in the jungle with his people.
- I'll wait for him.
- He feels comfortable with his people.
He forgets himself with his people.
- He forgets himself.
- Captain?
Maybe we should wait back at the boat.
- I think you—
- Okay, Chef.
- We'll go back to the boat for a while.
- Yeah, stay with Lance.
This Colonel guy, he- he's wacko, man.
He's worse than crazy. He's evil!
I mean, that's what the man's
got set up, here, man!
It's fuckin' pagan idolatry!
Look around you!
- Shit, he's loco.
- Then you'll help me?
"Help you?" Fuckin'-A, I'll help you.
I'll do anything to get outta this joint!
Good boy.
We could blow
all them assholes away.
They're so fuckin' spaced out,
they wouldn't even know it!
Oh, I ain't afraid of all them
fuckin' skulls, and altars, and shit.
I used to think if...
If I died in an evil place,
then my soul wouldn't be
able to make it to heaven.
But, now? Fuck.
I mean, I don't care where it goes,
as long as it ain't here.
So what do you wanna do?
I'll kill the fuck.
- No, no.
- Get outta here.
I'm gonna need you to wait here, Chef.
I'll go up with Lance and scrounge around,
check the place out,
see if I can find the Colonel, okay?
- Well, what do you want me to do?
- Damn it.
Here, you take the radio,
and if I don't get back by 2200 hours,
you call in the air strike.
Air strike?
The code is "Almighty,"
coordinates 0-9-2-6-4-7-1-2.
It's all in there.
0-9-2-6-4-7-1-2.
Everything I saw told
me that Kurtz had gone insane.
The place was full of bodies.
North Vietnamese, Viet Cong, Cambodians.
If I was still alive,
it was because he wanted me that way.
Hey!
It smelled like slow death in there.
Malaria, nightmares.
This was the end of the river, all right.
Where are you from, Willard?
I'm from Ohio, sir.
- Were you born there?
- Yes, sir.
- Whereabouts?
- Toledo, sir.
How far are you from the river?
The Ohio river, sir?
- Uh-huh.
- About 200 miles.
I went down that river
once when I was a kid.
There's a place in the river,
I can't remember...
It must've been a gardenia plantation,
or a flower plantation, at one time.
It's all wild and overgrown now, but...
for about... for about five miles, you'd
think that heaven just fell on the earth,
in the form of gardenias.
Have you ever considered...
any real freedoms?
Freedoms from the opinion of others?
Even the opinions of yourself?
Did they say why, Willard?
Why they wanted to terminate my command?
I was sent on a classified mission, sir.
No longer classified,
is it?
What did they tell you?
They told me...
that you had gone...
totally insane,
and, uh, that your... methods were...
unsound.
Are my methods unsound?
I don't see any method at all, sir.
I expected... someone like you...
What did you expect?
Are you an assassin?
I'm a Soldier.
You're neither.
You're an errand boy...
sent by grocery clerks...
to collect a bill.
Why, huh? Why would a nice guy
like you wanna kill a genius?
Goin' down pretty good, huh?
Why?
You know?
Do you know that the man,
the man really likes you?
He likes you. He really likes you, but...
he's got something in mind for you.
Aren't you curious about that?
I'm curious. I'm very curious.
Are you curious?
There's something happenin' out here, man.
You know something, man?
I know something that you don't know.
That's right, Jack.
The man is clear in his mind,
but his soul is mad.
Oh, yeah.
He's dying, I think.
He hates all this. He hates it.
But... the man's, uh...
He reads poetry out loud, all right?
And a voice,
a voice...
He likes you 'cause you're still alive.
He's got plans for you.
No, no, I'm not gonna help you.
You're gonna help him, man.
You're gonna help him.
I mean, what are they gonna say, man,
when he's gone? Huh?
'Cause he dies when it dies, man.
When it dies, he dies.
What are they gonna say about him?
What are they gonna say?
"He was a kind man. He was a wise man.
"He had plans. He had wisdom.“
Bullshit, man!
Am I gonna be the one that's gonna
set them straight? Look at me. Wrong!
You...
Almost eight hours...
God. I'm asleep.
I'm asleep and I'm dreamin'
I'm on this shitty boat.
Fuck.
Has it been eight hours?
Hello, Almighty, Almighty.
This is PBR Street Gang.
Radio check. Over.
PBR Street Gang,
this is Almighty standing by. Over.
What the hell! Jesus!
Oh, Christ!
"We are the hollow men
we are the stuffed men
"leaning together
headpiece filled with straw. Alas!
"Our dried voices,
when we whisper together
"are quiet and
meaningless as wind in dry grass
- "or rats' feet over broken glass..."
- Oh, he's out there.
"In our dry cellar..."
- He's really out there.
- "Shape without form, shade without color,
"paralyzed force,
gesture without motion..."
Do you know what the man's saying?
- Do you?
- "Those who have crossed..."
This is dialectics. It's very
simple dialectics. One through nine,
no "maybes," no "supposes," no fractions.
You can't travel in space.
You can't go out into space, you know,
without like, you know... with fractions.
What are you gonna land on?
One-quarter? Three-eighths?
What are you gonna do when you go
from here to Venus or something?
That's dialectic physics, okay?
Dialectic logic is,
"there's only love and hate."
You either love somebody or you hate 'em.
Mutt!
You mutt...
This is the way the fucking world ends.
Look at this fucking shit we're in, man!
"Not with a bang, a whimper."
And with a whimper, I'm fucking splitting,
Jack.
On the river, I thought
that the minute I looked at him,
I'd know what to do.
But it didn't happen.
I was in there with him for days,
not under guard.
I was free.
But he knew I wasn't going anywhere.
He knew more about what I was
going to do than I did.
If the Generals back in Nha Trang
could see what I saw,
would they still want me to kill him?
More than ever, probably.
And what would his people back home want,
if they ever learned just how
far from them he'd really gone?
He broke from them,
and then he broke from himself.
I'd never seen a man
so broken up and ripped apart.
I've seen the horrors,
horrors that you've seen.
But you have no right
to call me a murderer.
You have a right to kill me.
You have a right to do that.
But you have no right to judge me.
It's impossible for words to describe...
what is necessary...
to those who do not know
what "horror" means.
Horror.
Horror has a face.
And you must make a friend of horror.
Horror and moral terror are your friends.
If they are not,
then they are enemies to be feared.
They are truly enemies.
I remember when I was with Special Forces.
It seems a thousand centuries ago.
We went into a camp
to inoculate...
some children.
We'd left the camp, after we had
inoculated the children for polio.
And this old man came running after us,
and he was crying, he couldn't see.
We went back there
and they had come
and hacked off every inoculated arm.
There they were, in a pile. A pile of...
little arms.
And I remember,
I cried. I wept like...
some grandmother.
I wanted to tear my teeth out.
I didn't know what I wanted to do.
And I want to remember it.
I never want to forget it.
I never want to forget.
And then I realized,
like I was shot,
like I was shot with a diamond,
a diamond bullet,
right through my forehead.
And I thought, "my God,
the genius of that. The genius."
The will to do that,
perfect, genuine, complete, crystalline,
pure.
And then I realized,
they were stronger than me,
because they could stand it.
These were not monsters.
These were men, trained cadres.
These men who fought with their hearts,
who have families, who have children,
who are filled with love,
but they have the strength,
the strength...
to do that.
If I had ten divisions of those men,
then our troubles here
would be over very quickly.
You have to have men who are moral,
and at the same time, who are able to...
utilize their...
primordial instincts to kill...
without feeling, without passion,
without judgment. Without judgment.
Because it's judgment that defeats us.
I worry that my son might not
understand what I've tried to be.
And if I were to be killed, Willard,
I would want someone to go to my
home and tell my son everything.
Everything I did. Everything you saw.
Because there's nothing that I detest
more than the stench of lies.
And if you understand
me, Willard, you...
You will do this for me.
PBR Street Gang, this is Almighty.
Over.
Standing by. Over.
PBR Street Gang, this is Almighty.
Standing by. How do you copy?
They were gonna
make me a Major for this,
and I wasn't even
in their fucking Army, anymore.
Everybody wanted me to do it,
him most of all.
I felt like he was up there,
waiting for me to take the pain away.
He just wanted to go out like a Soldier.
Standing up.
Not like some poor, wasted,
rag-assed renegade.
Even the jungle wanted him dead,
and that's who he really
took his orders from anyway.
"We train young men to drop fire
on people, but their commanders
"won't allow them to write 'fuck!'
On their airplanes
"because it's obscene!"
The horror...
Calling PBR Street Gang.
PBR Street Gang, this is Almighty.
Do you read me? Over.
PBR Street Gang.
PBR Street Gang, this is Almighty—
The horror.